docs: :memo: move user types over into user personas document (#994)
seedcase-project/seedcase-sprout: docs/design/architecture/user-personas.qmd

---
title: User personas
---

This document describes the different users we expected and design for,
as well as some hypothetical user personas.

## User types

Owner/creator

:   The owner is a user who wants to start a research project collecting
    or storing data and who wants full control over the project. This is
    also someone who has special needs or requirements, so wants
    fine-grained control over the structure and design of the data
    generated and stored from the research project.

Administrator

:   The administrator is a user who is assigned to manage the research
    project by the owner. This particular user doesn't have ownership
    over the project direction, but may either want to independently
    have more control over how the data is processed and structured, or
    has been assigned to do so by the owner.

Software developer/data engineer

:   The software developer or data engineer is a user who wants to build
    a custom extension of Sprout or who wants complete control over the
    structuring and processing of the data.

## User personas

These purely hypothetical personas help us and readers in understanding

> the different types of hypothetically real-world users and their needs
> with Sprout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the needs of real-world users and their expectations of Sprout.
```
Or something that avoids "hypothetically real" :grin:

### Software Developer

-   Name: Liam O'Connor
-   Background: Liam is a software developer with expertise in building
    and maintaining software. He only recently started working with
    software that must connect with or use data pipelines. He works in a
    medium-sized company that started modernizing their data pipelines
    and infrastructure. He works on integrating various data sources and

>     ensuring the smooth flow of data, so that they can be feed into

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ensuring the smooth flow of data, so that they can be fed into
```

        lifecycle.
    -   To comply with data governance and privacy regulations.
    -   To optimize data storage and retrieval for performance and
        scalability.
    -   To collaborate with developers and project owners to meet data
        requirements.
    -   To use best practices in data engineering while having limited
        resources.
-   Challenges:
    -   Handling large volumes of different types of data and from many
        different research projects.
    -   Having limited time and resources to manage all the tasks, so
        prefers opinionated and streamlined software.
    -   Trying to keep up with new technologies and best practices in
        data engineering.
    -   Troubleshooting and resolving data-related issues promptly.
    -   Keeping track of all the different versions of data and metadata
        that researchers are using.
    -   Deleting any participant data that is no longer needed or that
        the participant has requested to be deleted.

### Principle investigator/lead researcher

-   Name: Dr. Maria Garcia
-   Background: Dr. Garcia is a senior researcher within an academic

>     university. She has extensive experience in managing research

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    setting. She has extensive experience in managing research
```
Or just a university?

        metadata.
    -   To keep an overview of the data and metadata that is being
        collected and used in the research projects.
    -   To comply with privacy and legal requirements of the research
        data.
    -   To make it easier for her research group to use and analyze the
        data.
-   Challenges:
    -   Balancing multiple projects and responsibilities, as well as
        many different people with different needs.
    -   Ensuring that the data is accurate and complies with research
        standards.
    -   Keeping track of all the different versions of data and metadata
        that researchers are using.
    -   Maintaining the metadata and coordinating with her group to
        document everything properly.

### Project administrator

-   Name: Chen Wei
-   Background: Chen Wei is a research data manager with a strong
    background in data curation and metadata management. He works
    closely with research project owners to support the technical and
    administrative aspects of research projects. He wants to use Sprout
    to make it easier to manage all his assigned projects, while also

>     needing to balance specific needs of the different projects and how

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    balancing the specific needs of the different projects and how
```
